W-21920273-troubleshooting-section-fa (#266)
mulesoft/docs-design-center: modules/ROOT/pages/apid-general-troubleshooting.adoc

= API Designer Troubleshooting

> This page describes common issues that you might encounter when working in API Designer, along with their causes and recommended troubleshooting steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes common issues that sometimes occur when working in API Designer, along with their causes and recommended troubleshooting steps.
```

> == Preparing to publish" status persists

Reviewer: Remove the quotation mark?

> While working in API Designer, you might experience one or more of the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While working in API Designer, these issues sometimes occur:
```

> * The *Preparing to publish* dialog does not complete when publishing to Exchange

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The *Preparing to publish* dialog doesn't complete when publishing to Exchange.
```

> * API specifications do not display validation errors, warnings, or suggestions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* API specifications don't display validation errors, warnings, or suggestions.
```

> * The API Console does not render or remains blank

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The API Console doesn't render or remains blank.
```

> * The browser console shows a `NetworkError` related to loading the `anypoint-als.js` library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The browser console shows a `NetworkError` related to loading the `anypoint-als.js` library.
```

> This issue typically occurs when a required API Designer component fails to load due to network restrictions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These issues typically occur when a required API Designer component fails to load due to network restrictions.
```

> API Designer relies on a background service (API Language Services) to enable validation and rendering. In some environments, corporate firewalls, VPNs, or proxies can block or interrupt the download of this component, preventing the editor from functioning correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API Designer relies on API Language Services, which is a background service, to enable validation and rendering. In some environments, corporate firewalls, VPNs, or proxies can block or interrupt the download of this component, preventing the editor from functioning correctly.
```

=== Verification and diagnostics

To verify whether your network is correctly delivering the required resources:

* *Compare file delivery via cURL*  

> Run the following command and confirm the response is successful and the file size is approximately 1.5 MB:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run this command and confirm the response is successful and that the file size is approximately 1.5 MB:
```

[source,bash]
----
curl -I https://cdn.anypoint.mulesoft.com/artifacts/api-designer-ui/app/static/js/anypoint-als.01bd90ee2cb9622ee518fcb3e30c444e.js
----

==== Troubleshooting

To identify and resolve the issue:

> * *Test outside restricted networks*: try accessing API Designer without a corporate VPN or proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Test outside restricted networks*: Try accessing API Designer without a corporate VPN or proxy.
```

> * *Use a clean browser session*: open a private or incognito window and disable browser extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Use a clean browser session*: Open a private or incognito window and disable browser extensions.
```

> * *Try a different browser*: switch to another browser (for example, Chrome, Edge, Firefox, or Safari).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Try a different browser*: Switch to another browser, such as Chrome, Edge, Firefox, or Safari.
```

> * *Check local security software*: ensure antivirus or endpoint protection tools are not blocking background scripts or service workers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Check local security software*: Ensure antivirus or endpoint protection tools aren't blocking background scripts or service workers.
```
